Motion based tracking steps

1. background subtraction algorithm based on Gaussian mixture models
2. Morphological operations are applied to the resulting foreground mask to eliminate noise
3. blob analysis detects groups of connected pixels, which are likely to correspond to moving objects
4. machine learning model to detect the foreground objects is GMM

ALGO

Step1: Read the video and store in a variable
Step2: Variable and counter initiations
	1. provide a minimum width and height for the rectangle around the vehicles
	2. create a counter for keeping count of object(vehicles) detected and a counter for individual vehicle number display on their respective rectangles
	3. create a line in the video frame, passing the line would increament the counter for vehicle count
	4. decide on the position of the line in the video
	5. an offset value(allowable error between pixel) while the vehicles are counted when they cross the line
	6. define a function for red dot on the vehicles while counting
	
Step3:Preprocessing
	1. Read frames from captured video
	2. convert the captured video frame to grayscale
	3. convolution of the grey image with blurring gaussian filter
	4. apply gaussian mixture based background segmentation algorithm on the convoluted image
	5. Morphological operation: Dilating image from step 4 with 3X3 filter matrix of ones
	6. Generate an elliptical structuring element
	7. perform closing(Dilation followed by erosion)for closing small holes inside the foreground objects, or small black points on the object.
	8. find contours of the foreground object(vehicles) in the image with the help of contour retrieval mode and contour approximation method parameter

step4: Iterate through the counted objects(vehicles)to put a rectangle around if their width and height is greater than the minimum width and height given by user

step5: Set a text box on top of the rectangles of each vehicle to display its count

step6: Detect the center of the object, place a red dot on it while counting the object and append the count to the total vehicle counter

step7: Update the counter for counting total vehicles in the frame

step8: Display the total number of vehicles count on top of the resulting video
